[MUSIC]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So this class is for
someone who has for the first time,
who's just started learning JavaScript for
a few months, usually two to six months.
Maybe you completed an online tutorial,
like Code Academy, Code School
Khan Academy, something like that.
You want to continue
solidifying your fundamentals.
You're looking for more practice.
Or you're trying to get
into a Hack Reactor.
So I initially create this
class to help you prepare for
the Hack Reactor interview.
It's a two-part class.
And this is the second part.
The first part which I taught
yesterday and will be also released on
Front End Masters, just reviews
the core foundations of JavaScript.
We talked about objects,
arrays, and functions.
Those are some of the most
important aspects of the language,
as well as the most confusing for
beginners.
And then today we're gonna,
we're gonna build on that,
and we're gonna explore
even more into functions.
And you get started with some functional
programming, with the underscore library.
And the hope for this class is,
once you have this strong foundation,
you can go out and be an even
stronger JavaScript engineer, cool.
And so
I'm just gonna jump right into review,
cuz we have a lot to cover today and
we only have seven hours, so here we go.
So here's a chart from yesterday and
we have the anatomy of a function.
So what is the declaration or
the definition of
a function from yesterday?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Joe.
>> Joe: The.
It's the actual commands that get
executed as part of the function.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
So the function declaration
just starts with the keyword function and
it follows through to the brackets.
So it contains the function.
It contains the keyword function.
The parameters and the function body.
And what about the function name?
You know that the function name
here is being used loosely,
to mean any way that we can refer
to the function later in our code.
So that could be the actual
function name or
it could be a variable where
the function is stored.
So, we have the function name.
This is an add function, so
we have yellow add here.
That's the function name, and
we refer to it down here as well.
And then, we have the parameters.
The parameters are placeholders or
variables.
They're like variables in
that they don't have a value
until they're assigned a value.
The way that we assign parameters
a value is by passing them arguments.
And so here are arguments down here,
we pass the arguments at call time.
Or when we invoke the function.
When we invoke the function is
when we pass the arguments.
And at that point,
is when our parameters gain a value.
Before that, our parameters are undefined.
And then the other, the other
important thing is the function body.
The function body is never run
until we call the function.
So the functions body is in between these
two parentheses here, and that code,
that return A plus B is never,
is never run until down here.
So, if we were to pretend that we were
in the interpreter, we'd start here,
above this add function.
We'd say, okay, great,
we're going to create a variable and
store this function on definition
in that variable and memory.
And then it's going to skip
the entire function body, so
that return a + b is never It's never run.
And then once we get to the add functions,
this variable add, yeah, it's a function,
then we're gonna call it.
And we're gonna pass these arguments here,
three, four, and five.
Then, at that point only does,
it go into the function body, and
run the containing code.
So, we, We invoked it down here.
And we skip back up.
And then it goes into this statement,
which is return A plus B.
And also at that point is when
we give value to our parameter.
So at this point, is when A and B,
now contain the values three and four.
So, that was a review.
Do we have any questions on sort of the
anatomy of the function, the vocab words?
So thumbs.
So, and those of you joining online,
thumbs, a thumb up is a B and
a thumb down is a P, and
then a middle thumb Is just a dash.
And so we use our thumb to gauge
where everyone's at in the room.
And we're trying to be honest with
each other about where we are,
so that I can go slower or
faster based on how the collective.
And then, also, just gives me
feedback on if I explained something
thoroughly enough, or if I should
explain something a different way.
So it's really important to really be
honest when we do our thumbs, cool.
Lot's of thumbs up,
down there, cool.
So, so the slides,
the slides link where it says.
Forward/live.
That is the live slideshow.
So you can tune in there or you can
just go through the slides yourself.